---
title: "GSoC 2022"
date: 2019-06-02T08:50:52-04:00
draft: false
---

The Network Zoo is an open-source software ecosystem developed at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health to model biological systems as networks of interacting elements. 
The ecosystem includes several components including:
-	A methods zoo (https://github.com/netZoo): a repository that hosts the code, unit tests and examples of network inference methods. These methods are called after animal names (PANDA, DRAGON, CONDOR).
-	A zoo cloud (http://netzoocloud.networkmedicine.org): an interface that allows to run these methods on a remote server.
-	A Jupyter hub collection (http://netbooks.networkmedicine.org): a server that hosts a set of Python and R analyses written as executable Jupyter Notebooks.
-	A database that hosts networks generated by these tools (https://grand.networkmedicine.org).

These tools are widely used in the academic community to analyze data from biological experiments to model cancer and other human conditions. To get started, please read through the following project and reach out to Marouen Ben Guebila (benguebila@hsph.harvard.edu) if you’d like to join!

# GSoC 2022 projects overview

## 1 Connect netzoocloud with recount3

URL: http://netzoocloud.networkmedicine.org

Project type: adding a feature to an existing tool

Description: Netzoocloud is a web interface for network zoo tools that allows users with different levels of programming abilities to run these tools on their own data. However, a very common use case is to run network inference tools on publicly-available data, such as the one provided by [recount3](http://rna.recount.bio/). Recount3 is a database that collected a large set of genetic data snd processed them in a uniform manner which allows to build comparative analysis. In this project, we will build an interface to link netzoocloud to recount3 to connect both resources and facilitate a very common task done by a large number of users.

Skills: HTML/CSS, React, JQuery, Django, R.

## 2 Build an API for netzoocloud

URL: http://netzoocloud.networkmedicine.org

Project type: adding a feature to an existing tool

Description: Netzoocloud is a web interface for network zoo tools that allows users with different levels of programming abilities to run these tools on their own data. A common use case requires users to integrate netzoocloud in their own analytical pipeline, which requires building a programmatic access for netzoocloud. In this project, we will build a REST API for netzoocloud and enable a set of functionalities programmatically, then build an HTML page for the documentation of the API as a user guide.

Skills: Django, REST APIs, DRF, HTML/CSS.

## 3 Containerized environments for netbooks

URL: http://netbooks.networkmedicine.org

Project type: Improving an existing tool

Description: netbooks is a web server that allows to run executable documents on a Jupyter Hub server. This tool is intended to guide users in the usage of functions in the Network Zoo, browse examples of outputs and analytical results, and reproduce examples. A limitation of this tool is that all notebook run on the same environment (Python version and other dependencies), however, these tools were built on a different set of analysis, therefore, to have a perfect reproducibility, in this project, we will build a system to integrate each notebook in its own environment and execute this environment in runtime.

Skills: Python, Jupyter notebook/Jupyter Hub, conda.

## 4 Building site-wide search functionalities in GRAND

URL: https://grand.networkmedicine.org

Project type: Improving an existing tool

Description: GRAND is a database that hosts networks for several biological systems and human conditions built using Network Zoo tools. These networks can be queried and visualized using the built-in tools in the database. These networks are also classified in categories but a resource-wide search tool using advanced filters is still missing and has been required by several users. Therefore, in this project, we will implement a search functionality that allows users to fetch networks based on advanced features such as node and edge attributes.

Skills: HTML/CSS, Javascript, Python and Django.

## 5 Jenkins continuous integration server for netZooM

URL: https://github.com/netZoo/netZooM

Project type: Improving an existing tool

Description: Network Zoo tools are implemented in Python, R, MATLAB, and C. Although continuous integration systems have improved in the past years particularly with GitHub actions, a common challenge remains with testing proprietary software such as MATLAB scripts. In this project, we will build a Jenkins continuous integration server for netZooM (M stands for MATLAB) using our own servers and configure it to run unit test for this repository.

Skills: Jenkins, Linux, GitHub, MATLAB.
